---
layout: post
title: "I Like C++"
date: 2018-05-06 16:16:01 -0700
categories: programming
---

Every time I say "I like C++" to someone, I get a look from them as if I just said "Pizza is my favorite vegetable". It's a mix of confusion and worry about my well being. But I really like C++, it's a cool language.

Now don't get me wrong, I don't think C++ is a good option for *all* situations. I would even suggest that C++ is the wrong option for *most* situations. But never the less, it's a fun language that's practical, and has it's place.

> Disclaimer: I am no expert with C++, closer to C++ novice. My main languages are JavaScript and Swift. These are just my thoughts.

### It's Compatible

Of course I start with this point, but it's true. Go out right now and try and find a computer that won't run C++. Mac, Windows, Linux; I can make applications written in C++ for all of them. Interested in iOT or robotics? Guess which language people are using.

Now this is really due to the fact that C++ is "C with Classes", so a lot of the points I'm making here are also points about C. 

Not only can you create a C++ application that runs on pretty much anything, there is usually a way to bridge C++ into your current language and environment. iOS developers have Objective-C++, Android developers have the NDK, node is written in C++ so bridging to JavaScript is really simple, python, php swift. So you could write part of your app in C++ and the other part in your other favorite language.

### It Has Libraries

What are you interested in programming right now? Mobile apps, desktop apps, machine learning models, computer vision, servers, embedded systems. C++ has libraries for all of these. 

You know how python is so popular for ML right now? Most of the libraries, like tensor flow, are really just C++ under the hood. JavaScript with Node JS is probably the most popular language for server side code right now, it's all C++ under the hood.

### It's Powerful

We can do pretty much anything in C, so we can do pretty much anything in C++. We also have the option of getting as low level or high level as we want. 

### It's Fast


### It's Modern

Take a look at C++ 11 and newer, it looks like most modern programming languages. We've got promises and futures, lambdas, and modern multithreading code. Take a look at the following multithreadign code:

```c++
```

That is super nice and easy to use, no dealing with threads directly, plus it's compatible. I can compile and run that code on my Mac, or a linux server with no changes.


### It's Not That Great

I'll finish with some of my negative thoughts about C++.

* no package manger
* difficult
* dangerous
* 